You can have two people using AI every
single day. One of them is saving a few
minutes on emails. The other is running
entire business systems that operate
while they sleep. The difference isn't
intelligence or technical skill. It's
knowing which level they're at and what
to do next. Thanks to HubSpot for
sponsoring this video. This video will
show you all seven levels, where you
fit, and exactly what to do next. Moving
up happens faster than most people
expect.
This is where everyone starts. You have
a free account in ChatGPT, and you're
basically using it like a fancier search
engine. Asking it questions you used to
Google, maybe getting it to write a
quick email. It's useful, but it doesn't
feel like a superpower yet. You're here
if you mostly ask one-off questions and
don't really think about how you're
asking them. The shift to level two is
simple. You have to start noticing that
how you ask changes what you get.
Now you've had the moment of realization
where you ask something two different
ways and got wildly different results.
Now you're actually thinking about your
prompts. A couple big unlocks here are
giving context and including examples.
So a simple prompt structure is
instruction, context, and constraints.
Then when applicable, give it an example
of an output you liked or a result
you're looking for. Now that's good to
know, but there's two shortcuts to just
speed run this whole level. First is
asking the AI to ask you questions
before it answers to gather needed
context or clarify the intent. It knows
what it needs better than you do, and it
will ask you a list of questions to
gather all of it. The response you get
back will be exponentially better than
what you would get otherwise. The second
way is you'll often have a long back and
forth before you get what you want. Just
kind of realizing along the way that you
didn't specify something or needed
additional context. Once you've done
that back and forth, ask it to write the
prompt that would have gotten you there
on the first try. If it's a task you'll
be repeating, save that prompt so you
can skip all that back and forth time in
the future. Those two tips will give you
dramatically better results basically
right away for very little effort. To
get to level two, use the basic prompt
structure, instruction, context,
constraints. Ask it to ask you questions
before it answers. And when an answer
misses the mark, don't just accept it.
Rewrite the prompt with more context and
try again. That habit alone will get you
here fast. Once you're regularly getting
useful output and feeling the value,
you'll hit the next wall. Starting fresh
every single conversation and rebuilding
context from scratch every time.
Breaking through that is pretty simple.
This is where you see a real noticeable
change in your productivity. Not just
getting better answers, but tasks that
used to take you an afternoon starting
to take 20 minutes. You stop getting
stuck on things and it feels intuitively
woven into your workflows. This involves
going deeper and utilizing all the
features available. This helps in many
ways, but one big unlock is with context
engineering. Providing the right context
gets you much better results, but you
don't want to have to start from scratch
in every new chat, feeding in all that
context. Projects solve this problem.
ChatGPT or Claude let you build
dedicated workspaces. One for work, one
for creative stuff, finances, health,
whatever you need. Each with their own
instructions, tone, context files, and
formatting preferences already baked in.
You stop re-explaining yourself every
chat. Your work project already knows
your brand voice and SOPs. Your writing
project already knows your style. Your
fitness project already knows your
goals. You just open a new chat and go.
This is also when you start testing the
different tools. Like Claude, Gemini,
and ChatGPT have very different
strengths, and by now you have enough
experience to actually feel the
difference. To get here, pick your most
common topic for AI use and build a
project for it. Include context files
that are relevant and write out custom
instructions. Anything you find yourself
re-explaining, make sure it's in there.
You can definitely use ChatGPT to help
write those. Just kind of dump out all
the things you think should be in there,
and have ChatGPT touch it up. Once you
stop rewriting the same setup every time
and have context baked in, you'll
immediately feel the difference. You'll
have a real workflow with AI. But you're
still operating almost entirely inside
LLMs. We're about to get our first taste
of AI agents, and as you can imagine,
that's where a lot of this is headed
towards. I'll be going deeper into these
as we progress through the levels.
There's been huge advancements over the
past year, and it's starting to actually
live up to the hype, which is why I also
worked with HubSpot to create a complete
guide to AI agents, updated for 2026.
This is a free resource that goes deep
into agents with frameworks, worksheets,
and implementation details. There's a
simple is this an agent job decision
framework you can actually use to
evaluate your workflows, a full
breakdown of a humans for judgment,
agents for execution model with real
examples, and an entire chapter of use
cases across content and marketing,
creator and entrepreneur workflows, and
business operations. Plus a complete
implementation roadmap with the
step-by-step process for assessing what
to automate, integrating agents with
your existing tools and data, adding the
right guardrails, and tracking ROI
through efficiency, quality, and
business impact metrics. We packed this
with everything you would need to get
started and actually implement AI
agents. It's free to download at the
link in the description, and thanks to
HubSpot for partnering with me on this
resource and for sponsoring this video.
Level four is when you realize, although
you've already gotten a lot of benefit,
you're still just at the beginning. AI
is an entire ecosystem, and different
tools are built for different jobs. You
stop asking what can ChatGPT do for
this, and start asking what's the best
tool for this. You're pulling in
Notebook LM for research and working
through large documents, using Granola
to handle meeting notes automatically so
you can actually stay present in
conversations. You've got image or video
generation in your toolkit when you need
it.
those models in one place. I'm not going
to just sit and list off all the
different tools and what they're good
for. They go on and on, and I have a lot
of videos covering that. But one more
I'll mention here, an easy way to get
your first taste of agentic AI is with
Maddyness. Instead of you prompting back
and forth, you describe a goal, and it
goes off and develops the plan for you
and handles a multi-step process,
orchestrating different types of models
together all on its own. The first time
you see this is pretty mind-blowing. You
really take your hands off the wheel
while it just works for you. And here in
level four, there's also a deeper level
to LLMs we haven't discussed yet. You
can start to build. Claude, ChatGPT, and
Gemini all have this feature. In ChatGPT
and Gemini, it's called Canvas. In
Claude, it's called Artifacts. You can
describe a tool you want, it will write
the code and build it right there. Fully
interactive, with zero experience
required. You can prototype things in
minutes. This could be an internal tool,
a tracker, an interactive dashboard, or
a website. They can have a lot of
functionality. This is just a taste of
vibe coding, but when you try it, you
see just how easy it is. From a few
simple sentences of what you want, it
can build it. Then you just ask simply
for new features and changes. There's
tons of different tools you can
experiment with. Each person will have
different tools that apply to their
role, but the point here is everything I
mentioned is really easy to use. None of
these tools are technical whatsoever.
They're all unique and may take some
experimentation, but it's fairly
intuitive to just try something. Then if
it's not right, follow up with what you
didn't like. It usually just fixes it.
Then just over time, you get faster. But
now we're weaving multiple tools
together to get things done in ways that
weren't possible before. To get here,
pick one tool that's not an LLM and
actually use it for something real. I
have a lot of tool roundup style videos
of the things I personally actually use.
This could be Notebook LM if you do
research, Granola if you're in meetings,
Higgsfield if you do creative work. And
also, open your artifact or canvas
feature and describe a tool you wish
existed. Don't overthink it. The point
isn't to ship something polished, it's
to feel how fast you can go from an idea
to a working prototype. When you're on
this level, you're using several
different types of tools regularly, but
they're all still things you manually
kick off and follow up, go back and
forth, and check on yourself. Level five
is where you start building things that
run without you.
You've tasted what's possible, and now
you start to build intentionally.
There's a mindset shift here. You stop
seeing a tedious task and thinking how
do I do this faster, and start thinking
how do I build something that does this
for me. The platforms like Lovable or
Google AI Studio lets you do a ton for
free. These make it just as easy to
build internal tools as the canvas
features you used in level four, but
they are purpose-built for it. So you
can create genuinely useful things.
Client dashboards, internal tools,
custom workflows for your team. Real
stuff, still without needing to be a
developer or knowing how to read a
single line of code. You can really
start using your imagination to build
out complex tools. And what's really
cool is many of the tools you may have
been experimenting with can be built
into the tools and apps you build for
yourself. You can prompt for something
that incorporates Claude for writing and
Nano Banana for generating images, all
in a unique interface and workflow
purpose-built for you. At this level,
you also start automating. Not just
one-off tasks, but full processes that
get triggered on a schedule or by an
event and run end-to-end without you
touching them. Zapier is the easiest
entry point here. They have a copilot
that lets you just describe what you
want an automation or agent to do, and
it builds the whole thing. Now we run it
at Futurepedia across our entire back
end. Everything that would otherwise
take a full-time admin, keeping data
synced across platforms, running
background tasks, routing information
between tools, Zapier just handles it.
To get to level five, start with one
thing you do repeatedly and ask yourself
what would have to be true for this to
just happen automatically. Depending on
what that is, open Zapier and describe
it to the copilot. Or open Google AI
Studio and describe the tool. You don't
need to know how how build it. You just
need to know what you want. That first
automation that runs without you
touching it is a big unlock. Once you
feel that, you'll start seeing
opportunities everywhere. You're here if
you've built at least one simple thing
that runs on its own, but your more
complex workflows still need you to
prompt them or check in regularly. They
aren't streamlined and definitely aren't
automated.
At this level, you don't see problems
anymore. You see systems waiting to be
built. Every repetitive process, every
workflow that feels slow, every task
that a human is doing manually, your
brain immediately starts designing the
solution. This is where Claude Code
typically becomes one of your main
building tools. You can build almost
anything you can describe. So, I thought
this was a funny one I did for a
previous video when everyone was talking
about Cal AI being acquired. I took a
couple screenshots from the App Store
page and asked it to analyze those and
build the app for me. I needed one
follow-up, then it was functioning
perfectly where I could upload an image
of food and it would identify all the
ingredients and estimate the calories
and macros and had long-term tracking
and everything. It's kind of crazy how
easy it is to just replace software you
use with a couple prompts. That's of
course using it for yourself. Managing
payments, scaling, or building
communities is obviously harder. But,
that bespoke personalized software on
demand is pretty cool, too. Now, I'm not
going to walk through the whole terminal
setup here. You can also just use it
right in the Claude desktop app with no
additional setup. Just a couple of quick
tips in Claude Code is to use the
planning mode when building from
scratch. It will think deeply and
develop the whole concept, features, and
plan for everything first, then confirm
it all with you. After that, just build
feature by feature, testing each one
before moving on to the next. And in no
time, you'll have a fully functioning
professional-level piece of software you
built yourself. This can be anything.
Full AI-powered web apps and mobile
apps, internal tools and dashboards,
Chrome extensions, bots, scraping tools,
games, on and on. Another big tool here
is n8n. You can automate complex
workflows that can even be agents that
orchestrate other agents. Processes that
would normally take hours or require a
team of people can run in the background
continuously and without you involved.
We run these for some of our more
complex workflows at Futurepedia. And
then, there's Open Claw. Everything up
until this point, you build it and it
runs. Open Claw, you build it and then
it starts to think for itself. I want to
be up front about this one. It's really
interesting and there's a reason there's
so much hype, but it is absolutely not
for everyone. You're not even close.
Everything I've mentioned up until this
point, anyone with a little motivation
and mind for experimentation can learn.
I personally have zero coding background
and use all of these. But, Open Claw is
another story. You can learn it if
you're not technical, but it will not be
as easy as the others. But, if you don't
know, this is an open-source personal AI
agent that runs locally, usually on a
dedicated device like a Mac mini, or you
can use a VPS. You connect it to a
language model, give it access to your
tools, your email, your calendar, your
browser. Some people even give it a
credit card, and it operates as a
persistent, always-on assistant that
goes out and does things. And it comes
back and updates you when it's done.
But, an important part is it can
remember things across sessions. So,
it's learning context about you over
time and improving. What makes it
particularly unique is the interface.
Usually, this all happens from WhatsApp
or Telegram messages. You have a
multi-agent system, all with specialized
skills that you can just talk to simply
in one of your messaging apps. Again,
setting it up and configuring it will be
technical. There are definitely security
risks. And you can do basically
everything I've seen anyone do with Open
Claw using all the other tools I
mentioned, but it's worth knowing it
exists. And once it is all set up, feels
more intuitive because you're just
chatting with it. And this may be where
everything is headed. Because Open Claw
is at the bleeding edge right now, but
this stuff will get easier and safer
pretty quickly. Now, to get to level
six, the starting point is Claude Code.
Just pick one real problem, something
you'd normally spend hours on, and just
try to build a solution. Don't worry
about it being perfect. The goal at
first is just to feel what's possible
when you stop being limited by what you
already know how to make. And from
there, n8n is where you go when you're
ready to connect everything together
into longer, more complex agent
workflows. And if you're technical
enough to be curious about Open Claw,
the community around it is one of the
best resources. Just know what you're
getting into before you give anything
that kind of access to your systems.
This final level is aspirational.
Nobody's here yet, but level seven is
where everything comes together. An
actual workforce of AI agents building
and running your business around the
clock, growing it while you focus on the
things only you can do. I think it is
probably possible now to start a company
that is a one-person company that will
go on to be worth like more than a
billion dollars and more importantly
than that deliver an amazing product and
service to the world. The first true
one-person unicorn, like a
billion-dollar company built by a single
founder, has been predicted for a while.
It hasn't happened yet, but hopefully
someone watching this video is going to
be the one who does it. If you want to
go deeper into agents, again, there's
that resource I partnered with HubSpot
on in the description. We spent a lot of
time on that. And if you want just the
best way of helping to learn with all of
this stuff along the way, we have a full
course platform on Futurepedia with over
a thousand lessons across over 30 AI
courses. You'll find full learning paths
on everything from ChatGPT to video
generation to coding with AI and
everything in between. You can get a
7-day free trial using the link in the
description. Or I left this on the best
for viewer setting, so YouTube really
you'll like watching this video next.